Andrew John Lowe
Madarassy László utca 28, 1194 Budapest, Hungary
B andrew.john.lowe@gmail.com · linkedin.com/in/andrewjohnlowe
PROFESSIONAL PROFILE
I am a British particle physicist, software developer, and aspiring data scientist with over a decade’s worth
of experience working at the forefront of scientific research within large international collaborations. I
spent several years based at the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Geneva and
was a member of the team that discovered the Higgs boson, the observation of which led to the award
of the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physics. My core competencies include statistical data analysis, data mining,
high-speed real-time data analysis (“Big Fast Data”), quantitative problem solving in cross-functional
teams, software development and testing, Monte Carlo simulation, mathematical modelling, large-scale
computing, data visualisation and interpretation of results. I am a co-author of more than 400 peerreviewed scientific publications and have spoken in numerous international workshops and conferences.
EMPLOYMENT
Sept. 2013– Scientific Research Fellow
present
Wigner Research Centre for Physics, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Hungary
Performed statistical data analysis for the ALICE experiment at CERN, which recreates conditions that are believed to have existed a fraction of a second after the Big Bang. Used
state-of-the-art machine learning to develop predictive classification algorithms for recognising particles based on their decay properties.
Conducted the first-ever particle physics data analysis performed entirely in the R statistical
programming language. Devised a novel fast data-driven feature selection method that
identifies the variables with the best predictive power for a given classification or regression
task. Developed pattern recognition algorithms that promise to improve discovery reach in
searches for new particles at CERN and beyond.
Pioneered implementation of reproducible research by writing the first-ever fully reproducible particle physics analysis paper. Founded the ALICE Statistics and Machine Learning
Working Group. Co-organiser of the first CERN workshop dedicated to the use of machine
learning in particle physics. Taught machine learning tutorial at Eötvös Loránd University. Engaged with local data science community via public outreach talks and conference
presentations.
Apr. 2010–
Oct. 2012

Postdoctoral Fellow, Deputy Team Leader
California State University, Fresno, USA (based at CERN)
Systematically investigated the potential benefit of hundreds of different predictor variables
for a range of analyses using Monte Carlo simulations written in C++. Several new variables
were found that provide significant improvements in sensitivity for a variety of Higgs boson
and new particle searches.

Feb. 2008–
Aug. 2009

Postdoctoral Fellow
Indiana University, USA (based at CERN)
Developed an algorithm in C++ and Python for real-time particle identification in streaming
data at an input rate of 1 GB/s. Optimised algorithm parameters and achieved excellent
performance. This algorithm underpins a large part of the ATLAS experiment’s physics
programme by providing the data used for many analyses. It has been used for data-taking
since 2010 and has currently processed 70 PB and recorded 3 PB for subsequent analysis.

Dr Andrew John Lowe
20 January 2017

Curriculum Vitae (hyperlinked)
Page 1 of 2

Mar. 1998– Assistant Research Scientist
Sept. 2000 Centre for Time Metrology, National Physical Laboratory (NPL), UK
Provided technical and administrative support to a range of key activities relating to the
maintenance and dissemination of the UK’s national time scale.
EDUCATION
2001–2008

PhD Particle Physics
Royal Holloway, University of London, UK (including 17 months at CERN)
Thesis title: Performance and robustness studies of the trigger for the ATLAS experiment
Played a major role in the development of the core software and algorithms in C++ for a realtime multi-stage cascade classifier that filters and reduces the collision event data rate from
60 TB/s to a manageable 300 MB/s that can be written to permanent storage. Performed
detailed time profiling of the core software and devised improvements that made it 8 times
faster, thus meeting a critical requirement of the system.

2000–2001

MSc Particle Physics
Royal Holloway, University of London, UK
Thesis title: Light Higgs ( H → bb̄) at the LHC
Investigated the search potential of the H → bb̄ decay channel for a light Higgs boson using
the ATLAS detector at CERN. First ever data-mining analysis of this type to be performed
entirely in C++.

1993–1996

BSc (Hons) Physics
Royal Holloway, University of London, UK

TRANSFERABLE SKILLS

• Communication: Invited speaker at numerous international conferences, frequent presentations in
group meetings, report writing, public speaking, teamwork in a collaboration of about 3000 people
• Problem solving: Capacity to lead independent research, understand and dissect complex problems
and find creative solutions
• Project management: Accustomed to handling parallel projects with strict deadlines
COMPUTING SKILLS
Data mining software:
• ROOT (13 years’ experience)
• RapidMiner (basic knowledge)
• H2 O (basic knowledge)
• Weka
• Orange

Programming languages:
• C++ (16 years’ experience)
• R (2.5 years’ experience)
• Python (basic knowledge)
• SQL (basic knowledge)
• Octave
• Bash shell scripting
• FORTRAN
• Pascal

Software development:
• Emacs
• Sublime Text
• RStudio
• UML
• Git/GitHub
• CVS
• Subversion (SVN)
• Valgrind

Documentation:
• LATEX (16 years’ experience)
• Markdown
• Doxygen

Operating systems:
• Unix/Linux (16 years’ experience)
• Microsoft Windows

Other: object-oriented analysis and design, grid computing, CPU and time profiling, code optimisation,
memory debugging. Over 25 years’ programming experience in various languages.
Dr Andrew John Lowe
20 January 2017

Curriculum Vitae (hyperlinked)
Page 2 of 2

